
## E 10 Hiroshima 

They realized that their days were **numbered**.  
the wooden structures of the city don't **stand a chance**.  
**samurai**  
That code of warrior was adapted and **repurposed**, for the modern military. It was a **bastardized** version, to be sure.  
**Manchuria**
Now Americans have **buyer's remorse**. 
at 8:15, it was **hellscape**.  
**Hirohito**
Japan changes from being seen as enemy to actually a very important **bulwark** against communism. 
Those weapons that were available in 1945 were **veritable** **firecrackers** compare to the weapons that are available today.  


## E9 Liberation of Buchenwald  
All existing in **squalor**.  
The country went into a great **tailspin**, you might say, economically, militarily, socially, there are all sorts of **upheavals**.  
One young man left **embittered** by German's **plight** was Adolf Hitler, Austrian by birth...  
Many thought "It'll **blow over**, it's bad at the moment, but it's passing phase."  
the **persecution** escalated. 
**ghetto**  
**Judaism**
These units followed the armies and **rounded up** Jews, took them outside of their villages. 
that meeting was decided that these gas chambers would be the best way to accomplish this very **ghastly** goal. - 
Many Nazis find their sentences **commuted** or charges dropped.  


## E 8 Dresden Firestorm  
The bomber formation tries to **throw** the Germans **off the scent**.  
It's not the fault of RAF Bomber Command that air raid shelters have been **given** such **scant regard**.  
He was a **deserter** and a pig.  


## E 7 Battle of Bulge  
**Ardennes**  
Patton actually struck two American **servicemen** who were in hospital, he felt as **malingers**.  
Otto Skorzeny has gained a reputation as a **daredevil**.  
He's got huge **dollops** of personal courage, he's got **duelling** scars on him, he's quite big and tall, he's very distinct feature.  
The advantage of surprise and **overcast** skies are both now gone. Hitler's Army are **sitting ducks**. 
The wolf's **lair**.  
He's **addled** with drugs, he's not a well man, and all this does is just drive his paranoia to new levels.  
He's just a massive **hypochondriac**.  
The doomed offensive started at a secret meeting **laced** with **paranoia**.  
They are put on a bus that deliberately **meanders** through the forest for 30 minutes until they lost their bearings.  
He wants can-do German commanders that will do his bidding and won't **throw in the towel**.  
His **exertions** to rescue the troops at Bastogne are just stunning.  
For ten days, Hitler's legions have held the initiative, but on the 11th day, they're **routed**.  
a **perilous** retreat  
The Battle of Bulge proves to be the **costliest** battle of the war for the Americans.  

## E 6 D-Day  
You could get troops **ashore**, in small landing craft, but getting **armor** ashore particularly tanks, was a problem.  
**amphibious** invasion.  
**Normandy** landing  
those **lad** they were **seasick** like a dog  
**unbeknown**  
they knew an invasion is **in the offing**.  
**Rommel** was away in Germany celebrating his wife's birthday.   
The sight of the Allied **armada** must have been terrifying, a sea full of metal.  
The Hitler Youth Division fought ferociously, and very often fought to the last **cartridge**.  
**panzer** division  
They've got men behind and even inside the **hedgerows**, under perfect concealment.    
The Normandy landings, there's no question, they're **resounding** success.  
The Normandy American **Cemetery** **overlooking** Omaha Beach.  


## E 5 Siege of Stalingrad 
Non-**aggression** pact  
**Aryan** supremacy  
As they **carve up** their spoils, and **redraw** Poland's borders..  
Nobody expects The **Fuhrer** to open a second front of the war.  
22nd of June 1941, Operation **Barbarossa** started.  
Hitler's hunger for **Soviet** territory is **all-consuming**.  
It's just a juicy **morsel** that caught their eye.  
river **Volga**.  
The **seeds are sown** for a major battle of **wills**.  
**scorched earth policy**  
By the end of it, the landscape was **apocalyptic**.  
the survivors have any plan to flee the burning city, they're soon **quashed**.  
General **Chuikov** was very much in the new **breed** of Russian general.  
He was tough, he was **stoical**, he was arguably quite **ruthless**.  
the pressure to **cling on** is **unrelenting**.  
amazingly rapidly they link up the **pincers**.  
they discover the Germans are **a spent force**.  
The Germans were defeated **colossally**.  
They set their objectives, then added **Stalingrad** to it, almost **cavalierly**, in the middle of the operation.  


## E 4 Battle of Midway  
**hip boots**  
He can't let the Japanese run wild any more, so he's got **keep** the Japanese **at bay**.   
But **Nimitz**'s bosses in Washington have little sympathy for his **predicament**.  
The attack **enrages** Japan.  
The entire Japanese Military is now **galvanized** behind Admiral Yamamoto  
multiple forces that are all moving and **clockwork** and then they all come together.  
You'd have to say that they have the **upper hand**.  
We love **making mountains out of molehills**.  
Wow, **eureka**, we've got it.  
For the first **torpedo** **squadron**, only one man survives.  
This is America's last shot to kind of check the Japanese and prevent them from making their position **indomitable**.  
It's been an absolute **holocaust**.  
**saipan**  

## E 3 Pearl Harbor  
This shocked the world, this vast **czarist** empire could be beaten on the battlefield by these funny little people in this island.  
There is **poisonous** brew of **militarism**, **grudge against** the West.  
**Tojo**
For the Japanese delegates, it's an **abomination**.  
Western **hypocrisy**  
but the Americans were not that **receptive**.  
**Roosevelt** was someone who played all hid cards **very close to the vest**.  
**off-hours**, they're going to the clubs, they're just having a really good time.  
**Air strips**  
**Yamamoto**
So the American sanction threatened to **unhinge** this Japanese war effort.  
if the war is now inevitable, Japan will **strike the first blow**.  
They looked at Americans saw it as ultimate sort of **decadent** power, consumer culture, **materialism**.  
There is a real irony here, On the one hand, Yamamoto has been saying for months that we would be insane to go to war against the Americans. And yet, on the other hand, he is absolutely **dogmatic** about making sure that his own vision of the attack against Americans is adopted.  
He issues an order that requires his **air fields** to put all of their aircraft on the center of the **tarmac**, where they can be guarded **around the clock**.  
**fatalism**  
**empire**, **emperor**  
**emotive** music playing  
It would have been just a **cacophony** of noise and a crush of men going in these narrow **passageways**.  
The Americans tend to **disparage** the technology **prowess** of the Japanese.  
stripped out their most **potent** weapon.  
The Japanese really kicked over a **hornet's nest**.  
Once the United States was in the war, with this **stupendous** economic and industrial power, and the allies must in the end, **prevail**.  
Roosevelt calls it **dastardly** and evil, he calls it a day of **infamy**. -  


## E 2 Battle of Britain
**RAF** 
**Luftwaffe**   
**Supermarine** **Spitfire**  
basically he just **concocts** a **crock** of lies, it is all based on the **flimsiest** of intelligence.  
**dowding** system  
**sextant**  
But the planned **knockout** of the RAF on Eagle Day... turns into a **drubbing** for Luftwaffe.  
life for the average RAF pilot during August, it's sort of **schizophrenic** existence.  
top of the **glamor** tree  
**Dogfight** **ensure** over the Thames Estuary... with over 1000 aircrafts involved.  
The **bliz** has begun.  
**bear** the **brunt**  
**head on**  


## E 1 Blitzkrieg
**Prussian** general   
Iron and **ore**  
We set up **reconnaissance** of enemy movements.  
We also secretly attack in the **Ardennes**, in this difficult area.  
It makes me so **cross** every time I think about it.  
What they don't have is any kind of tactical **nous** whatsoever  
**dutch courage**  

